SARAH [OS]: Sanctuary, my home.
A town where for hundreds
of years witches like myself
lived in the shadows,
hiding their powers
for fear of persecution.
Today, we live in the open,
free to practice our craft
and help those in need.
Sanctuary is now a haven
that welcomes everyone.
Those dark days
are long behind us.
Or so we thought.
ABIGAIL:
Oh well guys, it looks like
you chose the right place.
I mean, Sanctuary's not cheap
but look what you get
for your money;
great views, cool history, super
cool people like these guys.
BRIDGET: [Laughs]
PIERRE: Am I cool?
BRIDGET: You put up with me.
ABIGAIL: Childhood sweethearts.
JULIA: Oh.
BRIDGET:
Gluttons for punishment.
MICHAEL: Aren't we all?
ABIGAIL: Oh yes, we're all
boring marrieds here,
[Laughter]
except for darling Sarah.
Registered witch,
amazing mother.
My inspiration,
my soul mate.
SARAH: What, my publicist?
[Laughter]
JULIA: Well it's - it's really
lovely to meet you all.
Coming from out of town
we weren't quite sure
what to expect.
SARAH:
Pointy hats, voodoo, weirdos?
JULIA: Oh god no, not -
ALBIE: Yeah, kind of. [Laughter]
BRIDGET [OOV]: The thing
about magic is,
it's mysterious but it works.
PIERRE: Yeah.
SARAH: Absolutely.
It really does. Fact.
Okay, look, I know not
everyone's a fan of witchcraft
and a lot of places
pay lip service
to what some might call
weird beliefs,
Sanctuary generally
embraces them.
My family have lived here
for 300 years
so I'm guessing
that speaks for itself.
And, hopefully,
you guys will soon -
[LOUD BANG SOUND]
♪
[Indistinct]
SARAH:
Stop.
Don't let go. Hold me.
♪ ♪
EMILY:
The thing is Mrs Whitehall,
I've never consulted
a witch before.
ABIGAIL: Oh please,
there's nothing to worry about.
Michael told me
about your situation,
I knew I had to point you
in the right direction,
of course Michael's all
about following the signs
so was never going to officially
going to give you that steer.
WOMAN PASSERBY:
Hello Mrs Whithall.
ABIGAIL: Hi Katy.
But he knows as well as I do
that this town relies on Sarah,
when Dan had
his hamstring issues,
she had him back
on the field in no time.
ABIGAIL:
[RINGS SARAH'S DOORBELL]
SARAH: Abi. Emily.
SARAH:
So this feeling of pressure.
EMILY:
It's not just a feeling.
It's an actual pain.
My husband thinks
I'm imagining it.
But, it's getting worse,
and I'm thinking
'am I gonna have a stroke?'
SARAH:
That must be incredibly scary.
Would you mind
if I had a look?
EMILY: Sure.
SARAH: [BREATHES HEAVILY]
SARAH: [WHISPERING INCANTATION]
SARAH: Okay.
I think I have
a clearer picture now.
This isn't your first baby,
is it?
EMILY: [LETS OUT A SOB]
ABIGAIL:
Ready to go?
It's you they want, not me.
EMILY:
So they said he was in distress,
that we needed
to get him out quickly.
I don't remember anything
till they said it had stopped,
his heartbeat,
it just went away.
Abigail said you could help me,
so, can you make this one live?
SARAH: The law doesn't permit me
to interfere
with future outcomes.
EMILY: But she said.
SARAH:
What I can do is give you belief
in your body to do its work.
Fortitude to bear immense pain.
And trust that this soul
will find its way through
and all you have to do
is welcome it.
EMILY:
So there is a spell for that?
SARAH: There is.
So, if you wouldn't mind
signing this permission form.
It says you've consented to me
taking these hair samples,
that I have your agreement
to use them
as part of any treatment
and that any unused samples
will be kept securely along
with your notes in my safe.
EMILY: Sure.
SARAH: Okay.
So I'll prepare
the treatment tonight.
EMILY: I guess you see
a lot of desperate people,
hoping for miracles.
SARAH: Yeah.
EMILY:
And can you do miracles?
SARAH: It has been known.
ABIGAIL:
Thank you, Charlotte.
And do tell your mum
I was asking?
CHARLOTTE: Yeah, I will.
DANIEL: Thanks guys.
CHARLOTTE: No worries.
ABIGAIL: Oh it's exciting.
[Laughs] Sarah.
SARAH: Hi Abs. How are you?
ABIGAIL: Yeah, I'm good.
SARAH: I'm great.
DANIEL: Hi Sarah, are you okay?
SARAH: Dan, it's been ages.
DANIEL:
I miss you too. Good to see you.
ABIGAIL: Mary Ann,
I don't know how you do it,
honestly, I do not know
how you do it. Hi Beatrice.
DANIEL: Hey Bea.
ABIGAIL:
Hey guys. How's it going?
MALE VOICE [OOV]: Hi
Mrs Whithall.
ABIGAIL:
Would you stop it, it's Abigail.
MALE VOICE [OOV]: If you insist.
How you doing?
DANIEL: I'm all good.
MALE VOICE [OOV]: Juice here.
Alright chief.
TED BOLT: Coming through lads.
THE YOUNG MEN GROUPED TOGETHER:
Hey!
TED BOLT: Are we ready?
ABIGAIL: Yeah.
DANIEL: Yeah.
ABIGAIL: Alright.
DANIEL: Let's do it.
ABIGAIL:
Come on, man of the moment.
DANIEL: See you later guys.
ABIGAIL: Let's go.
MALE: Can we go?
DANIEL:
Come on then. Let's do it.
[CROWD APPLAUD AND CHEER]
TED BOLT:
Thank you, thank you.
Friends and supporters,
please put your hands together
for our fundraising queen,
Mrs Abigail Whithall.
[CROWD CHEER/APPLAUD] Yes.
ABIGAIL: Well thanks Ted,
happy to take the credit
but I know there's someone
you'd all rather hear from,
our under 18s captain,
future international,
four clubs begging to sign him.
DANIEL: She's off again.
[LAUGHTER]
ABIGAIL:
That leaves me just to say
we've managed to bag
some amazing prizes
for the charity auction.
Er, a portrait
from our wonderful
resident artist Julia Garston.
[CROWD APPLAUD]
A tour of the police station
from Chief Inspector Bolt.
TED BOLT: For those of you
unfamiliar with the cells.
[Laughter]
ABIGAIL: And from
our magical practitioner
Sarah Fenn a customised
reenergising spell.
[CROWD CHEER]
Okay, let me hand you
over to our captain
who's going to tell you how you
can support his amazing team.
[CROWD CHEER]
BRIDGET:
Your spell got so many bids.
PIERRE:
Shame we can't clone her.
BRIDGET: [Chuckles]
No sign of Michael today.
SARAH: Oh, some crisis
at the hospital.
BRIDGET:
But still, Abi's big day,
Daniel's team.
PIERRE: Yes, as long as he
keeps signing the cheques.
BRIDGET: Mm?
PIERRE: Need a lift?
SARAH: I like walking.
BRIDGET:
Oh no, no, no.
I'm a lazy slob,
but P still loves me.
PIERRE: Always will.
Even though she broke my heart.
BRIDGET:
Didn't you divorce me?
SARAH: Hey, how's Izzy?
BRIDGET: Oh, still poorly.
PIERRE: How's Harper?
SARAH: Still Harper.
HARPER: How was the fundraiser?
SARAH: Mm. Didn't fancy it?
HARPER:
What did I miss?
Abigail swooning over Dan?
SARAH: [Laughs]
You guessed.
HARPER:
Well I can see that any time.
SARAH:
He's not been round lately.
How is he?
HARPER: You know, he's just
training to be a superstar.
SARAH: Oh yeah, er,
Abi did mention that.
HARPER: [Giggles]
SARAH: You out tonight?
HARPER:
Yeah, party at the warehouse.
SARAH:
Ah.
Well I'll be at Bridge's
if you need me.
HARPER: Happy hexing. Joking.
JULIA:
Who's going tonight? Dan?
Harper?
How is Harper?
BEATRICE: Obsessing about Dan.
JULIA: Oh I dare say
they'll work things out.
BEATRICE: Or not.
Whatever, I just can't be arsed
with all their dramas.
Can I get a lift?
JULIA:
Oh, ask dad.
I'm seeing the girls tonight.
ALBIE:
Your carriage awaits my queen.
SARAH: [WHISPERS INCANTATION]
[THE GIRLS LAUGH]
JULIA: I'm buzzing. [Laughter]
BRIDGET: I think we've earned
a little refreshment.
Oh Sarah sweet,
could you do them?
SARAH: Oh yeah.
ABIGAIL:
Always feels such a privilege
to be able to make
a small contribution.
SARAH: Oh it's not small
and you know it. So thank you.
BRIDGET: Woo! [Laughs]
JULIA: Oh just half
for me, I'm cutting.
BRIDGET:
Oh, I should be, but I'm not.
JULIA: I'm sure Cheryl loves you
just the way you are.
BRIDGET:
Oh no, no.
Cheryl wants to make me
a better person.
[Laughter]
JULIA: I dread to think
of how much booze
is going down
at that party right now.
ABIGAIL:
Oh, Dan will be on the juice,
he's got training first thing.
JULIA:
And Bea's got extra studies.
BRIDGET:
When did kids get so sensible?
JULIA: Oh Bea needs four As
for law school.
ABIGAIL:
And Dan is the consummate pro.
SARAH: To Dan and Bea.
Stars in the making.
And Izzy when she decides
what she wants to do.
JULIA: Oh and to Harper
too for erm, er -
ABIGAIL:
All the opportunities ahead.
JULIA: Right. Hah, exactly.
ABIGAIL:
And she's got masses of time
to decide what's next,
and, and even if she may not
be where she wanted to be -
SARAH:
Where I wanted her to be.
Hey, I'm the one that struggled.
Harper's totally cool with it.
ABIGAIL:
Well there you go.
All worked out for the best.
To Harper.
JULIA: To Harper.
BRIDGET: To Harper.
[PARTY GOERS GREET ONE ANOTHER]
BEATRICE:
Don't say anything.
GIRL: Hey Bea.
BEATRICE: Hey.
GIRL: Let's party.
BEATRICE: Yeah, let's go.
HARPER:
D'you have a minute?
JAKE: Come back later.
HARPER:
Fuck off Jake. I mean it Dan.
DANIEL:
Babe, look, just
don't spoil the party.
Okay? Catch you later, yeah?
[THE BOYS LAUGH]
[JULIA, ABIGAIL, BRIDGET AND
SARAH LAUGHING]
ABIGAIL: I think we were maybe
a bit insensitive before,
going on about our amazing kids.
SARAH:
But they are amazing.
Don't ever feel you have
to hold back on my account.
Look, all I ever wanted
was for Harper to take after me
as a witch, but, she didn't.
I just wish
she wasn't so prickly.
[Laughter]
JULIA:
Well that's not just Harper,
that's teenagers.
ABIGAIL: And husbands.
Erm, I mean it's great that
he's so devoted to his patients,
it's just sometimes
he gets a bit obsessed.
JULIA:
God, Albie was the same,
lived at the office,
or used to,
now I can't get him
out of the house.
[Laughter]
ABIGAIL: What the hell happened?
[Laughs]
JULIA:
Oh I guess he just realised
what a goddess I am.
[Laughter]
SARAH: You are.
CHERYL: Ladies, any chance
we can keep the noise down?
Izzy's sleeping.
JULIA: How is she?
CHERYL: Viral infection,
it's really dragging on.
SARAH:
Shall I fix her something?
CHERYL:
That's kind but Dr Clark said
she just needs bed
and plenty of fluids,
so if you ladies
could keep the lid on it.
[SOUND OF SIREN OUTSIDE]
CHERYL: Oh great, now she's
definitely gonna be awake.
BRIDGET: Cheryl, come join us.
CHERYL: Schedules to finish.
Exams coming up.
ABIGAIL:
Well we certainly do appreciate
everything you do
for the kids Cheryl.
[PHONE STARTS TO RING]
BRIDGET: [Chuckles]
CHERYL [OOV]: Hello.
JULIA: God, who rings this late?
BRIDGET:
Student prank calls.
We get about ten a week.
[Laughter]
CHERYL [OOV]: What do you mean?
What's happened? No? Fuck!
BRIDGET: Cheryl? Sweet?
CHERYL:
There's been an accident.
JULIA: At the party?
CHERYL: Yes.
JULIA: Bea!
ABIGAIL: Where's the boy?
JULIA:
Oh my god, Bea!
TED BOLT: Abi.
Can you come with me, please.
Sarah, you too.
Michael's on his way.
ABIGAIL: [SOBS]
SARAH: I've got you.
Sshh-sshh-sshh-sshh.
ABIGAIL: [WAILING]
AUTOMATED VOICE: At this site
the last lawful execution
of a witch took place.
After aiding Cromwell
against King Charles I
during the English Civil War,
witchcraft was legitimised
and the town of Sanctuary
vowed to welcome all,
regardless of creed or kind.
POLICE OFFICER [SPEAKING
IN TO RADIO]: DCI Knight's on
the scene, over.
DETECTIVE: DCI Knight,
I'm DC Henshall.
I've been assigned to -
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: First name?
DC HENSHALL: Ryan.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Oh. Maggie.
I take it you knew the boy?
DC HENSHALL: Yeah.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Okay, let's get to work.
What have we got?
DC HENSHALL:
I've made a list,
of all the kids
who were at the party.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Oh, big turnout.
DC HENSHALL:
Pretty much all the six form
of Sanctuary Senior,
plus the lads
from the local rugby team.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Mhm. And the deceased?
DC HENSHALL: Dan Whithall.
Only child, under 18s
rugby captain. Popular guy.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And this place?
DC HENSHALL: Disused warehouse.
Kids hang out, throw parties.
Unofficially of course,
no adults present.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Girlfriend?
DC HENSHALL: Harper Fenn.
On/off, depending on
who you talk to.
Jake Bolt, Dan's best friend.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
No relation to Ted Bolt?
DC HENSHALL:
His youngest. You know the boss?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Did a stint
in Sanctuary six years ago.
TED BOLT:
Well, well, well.
Miss Detective
Chief Inspector Knight.
I hope you told them we taught
you everything you know.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
It's good to be back boss.
Shame about the circumstances.
TED BOLT:
Tell me about it.
Dan Whithall was a great kid.
Couldn't meet nicer parents.
They want answers.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: I'm sure.
TED BOLT:
They also need closure.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Of course.
TED BOLT:
So this is how we play it.
This site was derelict,
wiring half done,
fire breaks out, kids panic,
boy falls, breaks his neck.
My Jakey was his best mate.
Swears he never
touched drink or drugs.
Bottom line;
our Dan was a hero.
Under 18s captain,
used to coach younger kids.
Sanctuary's hurting.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: I'll check
through the kids' statements,
and get it sorted.
ABIGAIL: [CRYING]
SARAH: She shouldn't be
on her own. Where's Michael?
JULIA: In the study. Working.
SARAH: I'm heading back
to the hospital.
BRIDGET:
Give Harper our love.
SARAH: Yeah.
ABIGAIL:
Are you seriously working?
MICHAEL: Can I get
you something?
ABIGAIL:
Our son just died.
MICHAEL: I know.
And if I could change
that I would.
But I can't.
ABIGAIL: That's it.
That's all you've got.
MICHAEL: I don't know
what to say Abi,
except we just have to find
a way through this.
SARAH:
You've been out for six hours.
HARPER: How's Abi?
SARAH:
You can imagine.
What about you?
What do you need?
HARPER:
I don't know.
Just time, to get my head
around it all, I think.
SARAH: Let me help.
HARPER: No. I don't need that.
You should go mum,
there's nothing you can do.
SARAH:
I'm not going anywhere.
HARPER:
No, but I need you to.
Please, just give me
a bit of space.
I'll call you
when they let me out.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Excuse me, Harper Fenn?
HARPER: Don't come in,
I'm getting ready.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
I'll wait in the corridor.
SARAH: Are you sure
you want to do this?
ABIGAIL:
Yes. I need to.
Dan would want me to.
Thank you.
[SHE SOBS]
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Harper?
I'm DCI Knight.
Just a routine investigation in
to what happened at the party.
Would you mind
answering a few questions?
HARPER: No.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
I know it's difficult.
Dan was your boyfriend, right?
Did you see him fall?
HARPER:
No. I was talking to Jake.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Where were you?
HARPER: I was on the stairs,
Dan was on the landing.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Had he been drinking?
HARPER:
It was a party.
What do you think?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Did you and Daniel have a row?
HARPER: We spoke.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Witnesses say you were shouting.
HARPER: Yeah.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: At him.
HARPER: Not at him.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Then who?
HARPER:
Sorry, can this wait?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Sure.
HARPER: Okay.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Er, one last question.
Is there any reason to think
Daniel's death
wasn't accidental?
HARPER:
What, you mean suicide?
Dan Whithall would hardly
kill himself
over a nasty
little slut like me.
PIERRE: See you.
JULIA: See you.
SARAH:
Shall I brew you something?
ABIGAIL: Could you?
SARAH: Yeah. See you.
BRIDGET: Bye.
BERYL VARLEY: Er, Mrs Whithall?
ABIGAIL: Yes.
BERYL VARLEY: Beryl Varley,
Sanctuary reporter, I'm -
I'm so sorry for your loss.
Could you spare me a moment?
How old was Daniel?
ABIGAIL: 18.
BERYL VARLEY: And how much did
he usually drink?
ABIGAIL:
Well he didn't really.
BERYL VARLEY: What about drugs?
ABIGAIL: I'm sorry?
BERYL VARLEY:
There were drugs at the party.
ABIGAIL:
I've no idea.
What has this got to do with
BERYL VARLEY:
Do you have any comment
to make about the sex tape?
ABIGAIL: The what?
BERYL VARLEY: Some kids
mentioned it being projected
on a wall.
ABIGAIL: I'm sorry, I
- I don't know anything about -
BERYL VARLEY:
Apparently, Daniel was in it.
ABIGAIL: Are you serious?
BERYL VARLEY:
Well I'm just following up
with the police investigation.
DC HENSHALL:
[KNOCKS DCI KNIGHT'S DESK]
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Chief not back yet?
DC HENSHALL:
His kid's in a bad way.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Jake. We need to talk to him.
DC HENSHALL:
Boss says he's too cut up
to answer any questions.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: But soon?
DC HENSHALL:
So we're still thinking
a straightforward accidental?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
I'm not thinking anything
till we've got the facts.
Fire. Er, where did it start?
How? Was it a coincidence?
Deliberate?
Several witnesses say
some kind of sex tape was shown.
Oh, how did the local press
get hold of that story?
DC HENSHALL: It's a small town,
people talk to each other.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
So, what exactly is this tape?
Who's in it? Who filmed it?
Who showed it? And why?
DC HENSHALL: Oh erm, some kid
from the party just sent this
- sorry.
Not sure what it is.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Am I missing something?
Wait, go back a bit.
Wait, there. Top corner.
Okay. That's presumably it.
The so-called sex tape.
Okay. So what exactly
BRIDGET:
Who is the officer in charge?
Please, can this lady
get some answers?
Her son's dead
and she needs to know
why someone's been
talking to reporters.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Mrs Whithall, I'm DCI
Knight and no one's done
anything of the sort.
ABIGAIL:
Why are you trying to blame
Daniel for what happened?
Was he drunk? Was he high?
Was it maybe even suicide?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
This is a routine investigation.
And a tragic accident seems
the most likely explanation.
But when a young person
dies unexpectedly
a thorough investigation
of the circumstances,
no matter how painful -
ABIGAIL: My husband is
a Professor of Virology,
he'll want to see
the toxicology reports
and any attempt
to smear my son -
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: That's not
what we do Mrs Whithall.
Our job is to get to the bottom
of what happened.
I hope one day
it'll bring you closure.
ABIGAIL:
Closure. Daniel was my life.
You think I want
to get over him?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Rest assured, Mrs Whithall,
we'll keep you informed.
ABIGAIL: Like you kept me
informed of this.
BRIDGET: What is it?
ABIGAIL: The sex tape
that's been doing the rounds.
You are digging,
you are trying to smear my son.
BRIDGET:
Abs, let's go. Let's go.
ABIGAIL: Okay.
[SOBBING]
HARPER [VOICEMAIL MESSAGE]: Hi,
this is Harper, leave a message.
DC HENSHALL:
So we have numerous witnesses,
all confirming that the guy
in the tape is Dan, with Harper.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
No wonder she was furious.
That up on the wall
in front of everyone.
I wonder what Dan thought.
DC HENSHALL: His mates seemed
to think it was hilarious.
Said it showed Harper
for what she really is.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Which is?
DC HENSHALL: A slut.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Ryan!
DC HENSHALL: Quote.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
That's the second time
I've heard that expression,
and I'm wondering
why is she the slut?
Why isn't he?
DC HENSHALL: Well I guess
with her mum being a witch.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Yeah.
DC HENSHALL: Oh, some people,
not me obviously,
but some folk seem to think
that they have this free
and easy attitude
towards their kids having sex.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And that's a crime?
DC HENSHALL:
Absolutely not, but -
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
You know what is a crime?
Someone projecting
a private act at a party
for everyone to gape at.
DC HENSHALL:
So whose idea was it?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Bottom line;
a sex tape got shown
to a bunch of kids
just before a boy died.
Is there a connection?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
[RINGS DOORBELL]
Mr Garston?
DCI Knight, DC Henshall.
We'd like to ask your daughter
Beatrice a few questions
about the party.
JULIA:
Hi I'm Bea's mum.
Look, we're very happy to help
but could we keep it short?
It's all been very traumatic.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Sure.
YOUNG HARPER:
D'you like my pictures?
YOUNGER SARAH: Of course I do,
they're beautiful.
YOUNGER HARPER:
When will my magic come in?
YOUNGER SARAH:
You know when.
By your 13th birthday
at the latest.
If it comes in.
YOUNGER HARPER: Yours did.
Great Grandma Seraphina's did.
YOUNGER SARAH:
Sometimes it skips a generation.
My mum didn't have it.
YOUNGER HARPER:
I will. What's in it?
YOUNGER SARAH:
Heartsease tincture,
tea rose for remembrance,
sweet pea for departure
and farewell,
and one last thing.
YOUNGER HARPER:
Why is it locked?
YOUNGER SARAH: It's where I keep
my client records.
YOUNGER HARPER: So everyone
you've ever done magic on
is in there?
YOUNGER SARAH: Mhm.
YOUNGER HARPER:
Whose hair is that?
YOUNGER SARAH: Confidential.
YOUNGER HARPER:
Someone gave it to you?
YOUNGER SARAH:
You know the rule.
YOUNGER HARPER: Something given
for something gained.
YOUNGER SARAH: Mhm.
YOUNGER HARPER: [Laughs]
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Is this a -
JULIA: Spell chart.
It looks like one,
doesn't it?
It's actually inspired
by one of Sarah's,
as an artist
I find them fascinating.
Of course only a witch
can make charts
that possess actual
magical properties.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And you're not one?
JULIA:
Oh god, no.
Sarah's the only one
with the gift.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
But you're part of her coven?
JULIA: Well yes, er, she -
she can call upon our energies,
non-magical, to augment her
own powers if the need arises,
but, do I have powers myself?
Absolutely not.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: So Beatrice,
I'm sure this all feels very raw
and you're probably
still in shock.
I understand you,
Dan and Harper were close.
JULIA: Oh you know what it's
like at that age, dramas galore.
And actually, well,
Harper's a bright kid
but, you know,
different aspirations.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
What can you tell me about -
ALBIE:
She already gave a statement.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Yes, but her friendships
with Dan and Harper
go back years.
So I was hoping she -
BEATRICE:
Have you talked to Jake?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
He was with Dan at the party.
BEATRICE: Mhm.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Okay.
So two things happened.
Daniel's fall and the fire.
Is there anything
you can tell me about -
BEATRICE: Not really,
I was mostly downstairs.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: And where did
you last see Daniel?
BEATRICE: Up on the first floor.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: With anyone?
BEATRICE: Not that I saw.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And Harper, where was she?
BEATRICE: Erm, at the bottom
of the stairs talking to Jake.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And did you see Daniel fall?
BEATRICE:
No. And I
- I didn't see the fire start,
all I remember
is people screaming
and running to the door.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Were you aware
of some kind of sex tape
being played?
BEATRICE: I heard.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
What did you hear?
BEATRICE:
That it was Harper and Dan.
JULIA: What? Seriously?
BEATRICE:
Mum, come on,
people do it all the time.
JULIA: What, film themselves
having sex?
BEATRICE:
Yeah, well not me obviously.
But Harper and Dan
had this whole 'Look at me,
I'm up for
anything' vibe going.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Do you know
who the tape belonged to?
ALBIE: Why would she?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Or who might've filmed it?
ALBIE: Again, why?
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Or, why someone would wanna
show it like that at a party
in front of everyone?
ALBIE: Kids do all kinds
of sick things.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Were you at
the party Mr Garston?
ALBIE:
No. I dropped my daughter off,
and then I went down the road
to deal with an issue
at a new build I'm designing.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
And how long were you there?
ALBIE:
Couple of hours.
BEATRICE: God, sorry.
[SOBS]
I'm sorry, it's so awful.
ALBIE: Okay. Let's just leave
it there for now.
Shall we?
[THE DOOR SLAMS BEHIND THEM]
DC HENSHALL:
What's all that about?
SARAH: You said you'd tell me
when they let you out.
HARPER:
What the fuck is this?
Hair of a boy who just died?
Mum, what happened to consent?
Isn't that magic
rule number one?
SARAH:
I had these from before.
And I wouldn't be using them
except I'm brewing
for you and Abi.
A simple tranquillity draft,
you're in shock. It'll help.
Do you have to be
so obvious?
HARPER: About what?
SARAH:
How much you hate it.
You didn't inherit magic,
I know, doesn't mean
you have to despise it.
HARPER: Sorry to be
such a disappointment.
SARAH: You're not.
No, if I've ever made
you feel as if -
HARPER: As if I failed?
I did, didn't I?
SARAH: No, I did.
Somehow, I didn't pass it on.
HARPER:
You did me a favour mum.
Life's easy when
you're not a freak.
SARAH:
It needs to cool.
It'll help you make your peace
with what happened to Dan,
so, you can start
to get over him.
HARPER: Get over him?
Jesus, mum!
Could you brew me
a mixture of oblivion
so I can forget
he ever existed!
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT:
Well I can see you're about
to make my day.
DC HENSHALL: Just had a call
from the station.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: And?
DC HENSHALL:
Witness just came forward.
DCI MAGGIE KNIGHT: Saying?
DC HENSHALL:
Dan Whithall was murdered.
Woman:
The whole town's traumatized.
My son just died.
Man: We have a murder
investigation on our hands.
Woman:
Witchcraft was used.
This is
an illegal spellbook.
It contains the darkest
of dark magic.
That power
in the wrong hands...
Heavenly Father!
Purge this curse.
[ Glass shatters ]
She killed him.
♪♪
The whole town's lost its mind.
Sarah Fenn alone
is responsible!
Woman: She'll face
the death penalty.
And they're gonna be coming
for us.
Get off me!
Keep your hands
off my daughter.
What's happening?Oh, my God.
Man: Everything in Sanctuary
has just blown up.
How could that happen?
The darkness
they conjure.
Man: Arrest Sarah Fenn.
Woman:
You've become a monster.
Guess what, witch.
It's only just begun.